[Music]
all the signs of someone that that is
about the ego to parade your your you
know your new girlfriend in thumbnails
in bed in this way the kid but look I
mean so this I want to make a separate
video talking with this city of
selfishness and the ego and stuff
alright
I'm willing to own it like you know I'm
showing a video and a photo of me being
happy with my girlfriend does that
really make me such a piece of [ __ ] am I
such a terrible person that I don't just
share what we mentioned the book reviews
and the political decisions I also share
part of my life like I'm really happy
I'm in this wonderful new relation with
my girlfriend that I show me and my
girlfriend being happy together and I
talk about what a great time
is that really make me such a terrible
person heinous like compared to what
anybody else is doing on being YouTube
I know magazine yeah okay you can call
that ego you know I have a video of one
video of me playing with my daughter
right
so is that ego like I'm showing you what
a great parent I am I'm showing you me
playing with my daughter with like
little you know colored bricks and stuff
what a piece of [ __ ] who would put that
on YouTube what a terrible person you
are for sharing a daughter a video of
you of you playing with your daughter
and you know when you get in the other
stuff in my life you know I'm very
critical in talking about keep doing
humanitarian work you know when one I
did humans were you're handing out sacks
of rice to serve people I think for a
lot of people that is an ego trip I
think it's worth talking about I'm gonna
wet wall okay is this an ego trip you
feel morally superior to others because
you've done this humanitarian work is
there you know like people say white
guilt is there a guilt trip involves
whether it's you know Laos and Cambodia
or within Canada First Nations Cree in a
jib way and den a trying to try and help
those people you know when people write
to me as nor vegan did recently
insulting me and claiming that I'm
self-interested when I do these these
ostensibly good things I'm going to
write back and say you're right I'm
selfish I've said it myself in the video
in the manifesto video I'm more
ambitious than this I'm more selfish
than this I I want more I'm not happy
with what's going on in veganism I want
it to be bigger and better and more and
political and more effective to have
real outcomes I want to be respected and
respectable and want to step
organizations like Mothers Against Drunk
Driving that could get quoted in the
press and that aren't regarded as a joke
yeah I want more and there's an element
of that which is my ego and is my
selfishness I think to found a big
successful organization like peda I
think it takes some ego I think Gary
Yourofsky has a lot of ego and and fine
I don't criticize him for that sure
there is a role of ego in this there is
literally a roll of ego and selfishness
in handing out food to starving people
on a refugee camp you know there is a
role of ego in standing up and saying
hey hey there's no way I can study
Cambodian there's no way I can study
Palli there's no I can have a teacher
I'll teach myself I'm gonna buy that
aircon ticket I'm gonna go live on the
Mekong Mekong River I'm gonna apply for
humanitarian work oh I can't get ahead
in First Nations like I'm gonna get the
books out of the library and start
studying created you boys oh yes there's
a role of ego in all of those things and
I'm willing to criticize it and talk
about it openly and I'm going to talk
about the role of selfishness even in
humanitarian work I think that's
actually a really deep topic and one
side with the role selfishness in in
vegan leadership sure so you know come
at me Joe I'm not afraid of any of this
stuff yeah and he was basing this on the
thumbnail he didn't actually watch the
video so he's saying that ISIL is
parading me based off of this thumbnail
this is me being in the thumbnail yeah
it's really weird I'm sure they're
having a great time she seems like a
lovely girl thanks Joe he's always he
always imagines that one he can be the
victim and two he can be the nice guy by
just throwing in this kind of [ __ ]
throwing in she seems like a lovely girl
doesn't make you a nice guy Joe what do
you think you call you she's in love
with me you call me a psychopath
publicly you think this makes it okay to
say you're sure she's a lovely girl look
you don't need to save me
[Music]
please in German job s as a rule the
only thing that can defeat a psychopath
is a bigger psychopath I've mentioned in
the past that you cannot be named we've
held and I've said this because when I
got interested in this subject last year
I read this book called defense of the
psychopath and in it it said that the
only thing that can beat a psychopath is
a bigger psychopath and this reminded me
of when I was in my youth that there was
these rough kids like in the gangs I was
in that you couldn't be so you're a
bigger psychopath and durianrider Joe
better than this then the rough tough
kids and the streets of London in the in
the gangs in London that he was a member
of right before his brilliant career as
an international financier that keeps
getting alluded to although his only
university degree is in architecture he
went for being in violent street gangs
in London with rough kids to studying
architecture university to being an
international financier in the
international banking system what a
courier this guy said and people ask me
for screenshots they asked me to prove
that my passport is real when it's true
my passwords mean nothing about this
story is hard to believe huh nothing
about his claims so based on his
experience with street gangs in London
he thinks I'm a psychopath that's
actually the opening claim because they
would go to extra mile so even if he was
stronger
even if he was faster you know they
would always be willing to go the extra
mile because that's what their life is
and it's the same with narcissists on
YouTube and social media they do so
you're a narcissist too because I'm
willing to go the extra mile what what
does that even mean that I don't know I
think he views your his interactions
with you it like on screen it says cold
and calculated worthless right right so
a video of you and me having a
spontaneous conversation in our
bathrobes recorded after midnight and
recorded before his video went up by the
way yeah
too late we didn't upload for a couple
days we hadn't seen it wasn't response
to this video that's cold and heartless
by my behavior but like in what in what
sense do I go the extra mile like even
in the case with during Ryder look what
he reached out to you just a week ago to
write an apology email you didn't have
any contact with him for months
yeah right you know like okay anyone
going going the extra-mile not
necessarily a bad thing but like what my
response to during Ryder would he call
it overkill like I said okay during
Ryder like look man if you if you want
to arrest me that was an original claim
was that he had criminal charges against
me I said let's meet at the police
station no problem I said if you don't
want to me to the police station we meet
at a coffee shop or we can hit a boxing
ring your choice let's meet fine let's
resolve this going the extra-mile
therefore I'm a sociopath there are four
of us I got that I don't know maybe I
was lazy maybe I didn't go extra mile
enough right like I man that you could
see it that way and I don't know I would
I don't think I went the whole nine
yards to mix metaphors you know anyway a
willing to open up troll accounts they
are willing to write messages to
themselves they are relentlessly
attacking so just what have I ever done
that even once they're ruining a great
role yeah I know I know but this but you
can see by the rebel screen this is this
is this is part of it yes right you're
worth but these are these are
differences you me and everywhere
they're not similarities these are
things during writer does that I have
never done once I don't have any troll
accounts I've never done this kind of
stuff at all what so it responds to one
of the comments below this video do you
remember there was a blow blow his video
there was somebody saying that me and
during Ryder are exactly the same was
like yeah yeah yeah you know like we're
exactly the same except I do book
reviews talking about vegan politics and
durianrider does like personal slander
like based on people's sex lives like
there's a really subtle difference but
if you watch my book reviews talking
about like Gary France a Monet or any of
these other major figures in in veganism
you know my book review of will Tuttle
even you know to me talk about will
Tuttle's book like I think if you watch
my book reviews you'll pick out the
subtle difference between me and dairy
writer at our at our approaches this you
know I can you where you just want to
defend yourself and go to bed and have
an
life so they exhaust you so yet does
this does this describe my relationship
with your best in any way was I
attacking him when he just wanted to be
left alone
what like at what stage does that
remotely like in terms of the last year
year and a half because my story with
him goes back two years at war at this
point like he made these videos defaming
me where he was supporting durianrider
and they were and saying his stuff with
a financial situation in the legal
situation and the fundraiser and this
kind of stuff and also saying stuff
about my private sex life where he was
alleging and presuming that I was
sleeping with a bunch of teenage girls
in Chiangmai he was saying all this
stuff and I reached out to him in a
totally positive way and said look don't
act like I'm a stranger here's the
here's why I was in Chiang Mai he made a
big deal about why was he in China shame
and all this crap and saying if you want
to talk to me on skype we can talk once
I play mother I reached out to him
positively and at that time his response
to that was to say that I was guilty of
ambient abuse whatever whatever the [ __ ]
ambient abuse makes and now now he says
I'm a psychopath so I've never said
anything as negative publicly on the
internet or privately I have never said
anything as negative about Joe best as
he's still sang about me so if he held
himself to the same standard
he'd have to judge himself a psychopath
and nurses and every single person that
has gone up against name withheld has
burnt out because he will continue I'm
not saying this is a positive attribute
I'm saying that normal people who else
has gone up against name withheld not
you Joe you are a coward
you didn't go up against them not when
it mattered not what it mattered
whatever was supposed to stand up and be
counted you sat down okay so I mean well
you know um vegan gains Richard vegan
gained stood up against Dermer he didn't
burn out because he's a man of principle
he's a man with some characters most
important fortitude eccentric as hell
you know suffers hallucinations in
dementia by his own account he has his
own psychological problems but he was a
man of principle nobody was expecting to
do that he was a big supporter of Turing
writers and durmitor supported him up to
that point and vegan gains just because
it was the right thing to do he stood up
to be counted
and it wasn't when it was convenient for
him it wasn't when it was good for his
channel it wasn't when it was the
popular thing to do and you didn't do
that Joe you were on the wrong side when
it matters and no you want to pretend
that you were a murderer and a victim
and a hero all at the same time because
you're doing it when it doesn't matter
you're doing it a year and a half too
late or something like that yeah now
it's become fashionable right right so
now you're just going along with the
crowd now the same way you were just
going along with the crowd before right
I mean same same story one resolution
they will be in conflict looking for
resolution and if you don't get it you
become exhausted and you go away if you
want resolution why did you make a video
calling eyes'll a psychopath right but
look what if I want resolution what if
the same thing applies to me Joe what if
you send me your shitty apology at a
time when you have more than four videos
up on your channel still slandering me
into family me videos that have been
picked up and recycled by being in
footsoldier recently videos that stole
the negative embed mode and my response
to you which you never admit I sent you
a message back saying this stuff is
still on your channel you never deleted
it you never apologize even retract you
never made another video talking about
it sunny from new perspective you still
have this stuff up bad-mouthing me you
know blackening my character and again a
lot of it being psychological these
claims that I'm a terrible person and
some deep psychological way which is
much much worse is much worse defamation
than me saying that Nina and Randa are
not gonna have an easy time going to
auditions in LA I'm you know kind of
absurd contrast okay well what if you
just said normal people want resolution
Joe what if I wanted resolution with you
what if rather than your apology which
you know is like the fourth time in a
year you've declared that your channels
gonna take on a new positive direction
what if I wanted resolution why don't
you hold yourself for the same it sounds
like one year ago when you reached out
to him you were trying to get resolution
with him when he was making up claims
that you had been sleeping with teenage
girls in Chiangmai use and you know he
was asking why is he it was amazing
watching my at all your you reached out
to him and said hey I'm available you
can talk to me my classic my what I say
again again people don't act like it's
hard to find me you can tell
I would but I to be honest I would even
call that resolution like wasn't for me
it was really me trying to be helpful to
him because like I know like if people
don't have any other source information
if all he's hearing are lies from these
other crappy youtubers it's like well
look I can show you a legal document
that's real I can show you banking
documents like you know I mean like I
can just talk you through what the
situation is and most people who talk to
me if they just going on skype and talk
to me like including clothes right
clothes from plant-based news they
didn't even want to see the documents
just hearing my voice is hearing me talk
through what the delays were and what
happened they were like close just
appalled he was like oh so I'm sorry man
I'm sorry I thought it was a scam if
they have no other source information
can't claim so I would just say that
wasn't even me looking for a solution
Purcell was me offering to help someone
who was in equal parts misled and
misleading that's the situation and name
we've held even talks about this in an
interview with carb doping great who has
been the most difficult role you've
dealt with socially / legally no one's
taking that cat yet because a lot of
like they get on you and they go hard
and they fizzle out and they want the
long-term ones are pretty low intensity
so generally the higher the patrol burns
the quicker they fade or the more
consistent they are the lower intensive
they burn that's fair enough but who
doesn't miss apply to who is still
burning along trolling along attacking
along without any sign of abating won't
accept anybody's apology wants to be
recognized for everything that he's done
etc etc well this fella now this here is
the biggest psychopath this got wet when
have I done trolling like honestly in my
whole youtube career in all the comments
what would you characterize as drawing I
can think of one example where the title
of the video was drawing but not the
actual video if you watch it I can think
of one and I have I think now more than
600 videos but well over 500 videos on
my channel sorry I don't know another
number but yes I can remember one video
I would say the title really was
trolling but to characterize me in
general as still trolling at no point
was i trolling durianrider if that's
reach I'm here at no point have I ever
told Joe best in any of our jury
and it was completely like by definition
normally a troll is anonymous to start
with but but if your trolling is based
on lies and insincerity normally for
comedic effect partly but also to be
insulting or to get a reaction of
somebody never even even someone like
vegan Ava I wasn't trolling vegan Ava I
mean it's like it's kind of hilarious my
videos with her but like you know you
remember the most recent one with vegan
Ava vegan Ava claimed that my email to
another youtuber was threatening and it
so there's no trolling it's a 100%
serious video I show exactly what the
email says and I ask in what way is this
threatening like why is this be sent
I've never played the role of the troll
neither in relation to those specific
people nor relation the vegan movement
general and even something like you know
you want to talk about like the the diet
advice from freely in Germany which is
not my strong suit it should have been
someone like vegan gains who took them
on in terms their crappy diet advice
somebody who really does diet and
nutrition but none of that is trolling
when I said no you can't eat unlimited
carbs and not gain weight I'm not
trolling like so this characterization
of me I don't know what is it a mix of
insincere and insane now this here is
the biggest psychopath this guy here
he's the one that's beaten name we've
held you know he's got him on the run
and he he just claimed on the biggest
psychopath on vegan YouTube
I got competition I got copies not just
your inner either man in my opinion he
ensnared him into a trap
he baited him into a trap and used that
to destroy him during that period I was
a supporter of name withheld and I still
stand by that in in from the point of
view that I felt he was baited I still
think he's wrong I still think he needs
to go from this community or just lit at
least leave it alone I think he's caused
so much harm and destruction none of
that I take back but it is very clear so
what did I do to beat durianrider I
during right because you made videos
talking about his terrible diet advice
apparently well so that is
and yeah of course he had to make videos
there he had to make comments right with
death threats obviously that is the most
logical like reaction to those videos
yeah so you were totally baiting him
once's well okay conversely of course
would anyone even doubt that during
Ryder was baiting me like when
durianrider stated that I was on
steroids he say that repeatedly on his
blog he said that I was on steroids and
giving weight loss advice on the basis
of being on steroids is that baiting or
not is that trolling or not that was his
those were his first public statements
about me his first so written statements
on the Internet
his first response to me on YouTube the
original controversy was about Crohn's
disease I say this again against I made
videos really stating ultimately boil
down the long videos durianrider claims
he cured Crohn's disease I say he didn't
I think this is an incurable disease
veganism will not cure Crohn's disease
Crohn's disease perfectly valid
criticism Crohn's disease is a very
serious incurable disease and you could
prove that during Ryder was lying simply
by contrasting a sound clip from an
interview he gave to rich role to what
he'd said on his own youtube channel
more recently and less reasonable before
and after so there were inconsistencies
within Durham right a story that already
made it impossible to believe that he
actually had Crohn's disease that he
could carry to prove he heard Crohn's
disease but also I mean havea miracle of
modern science if someone discovered
someone discovered the cure to Crohn's
disease on YouTube you know they were
there this would be written up in
scientific and medical journals okay
this would be a big deal right so if
you're claiming that is beating
durianrider that's is that beating
someone is that troy's that is that
pulling someone to cover no no it's an
invitation for him to say you're right I
shouldn't say these things online I
shouldn't say that I cured Crohn's
disease it's not factual it's not
something that I should be promising to
people I you know people with Crohn's
disease are desperate for cures yes and
you can't tell them that eating a raw
for diet is going to cure their Crohn's
disease it's just not right it's immoral
it impacts people's lives daily a lot of
his advice is advice when he tells
people to drop out of college she think
it doesn't impact it was lives you know
he gives a lot of bad advice that's
worth present worth responding to about
the pro notification lifestyle and
everything else but I got not too
just three or four emails from people
with Crohn's disease and I got one guy
writing to me who was who was a
biological sciences major I forget his
title I forget if he was technically I
don't think it was a medical doctor but
you know he was in biological sciences
and the three or four people who had
Crohn's disease they talked about
exactly that their sense of desperation
and of wanting to try anything to cure
this disease and then the negative
impact this had on their lives you know
and you know and their exasperation but
I remember one person said yeah you know
eating more bananas kind of helps a
little bit but you know like it's just
having more fiber more at least five
were passing through your system but to
misrepresent the secure is nonsense and
another person wrote in because I did
look into the scientific literature this
saying eating bananas doesn't help at
all it's a complete lie
anyway the scientific literature
indicates that actually helps some
people not others to eat a lot of loose
fiber but it's not a cure not remotely a
cure you know but I did actually get it
get maybe three or four people who wrote
long personal emails to me talking about
this issue and the impact that in their
life so it is an issue that has a face
it is an issue that as victims or as
real impact on individual individual
people's lives
and the the biological sciences student
I mean he was writing to me with the
technical details proving that Durham
Ryder must be lying because like Durham
writer described having the test that
proved he did have Crohn's disease and
then having a test later that proved he
was cured so he claims that he'd had one
test positive and then later at once as
negative right like as if like as if
it's a blood test and this guy was
writing to me saying look that's not how
the test works what he's describing is
not the way the testing procedure goes
reposed he was going through all the
deals that it's not it's not a blood
test no and that's what Gerry might
describe was just having a drop of blood
put on a slide for whether or not sugar
chrome season that doesn't work that way
let's not get into details but I
remember that guy talk to me with a
little bit so yeah you know that's sure
and so therefore Joe best is gonna blame
the victim here and say well during
Ryder was baited look I think if you
make the claim that you've cured an
incurable disease something seriously
like Crohn's disease I don't think my
criticism on that is disproportionate or
unreasonable and you know yeah you know
this isn't the first time that I've
heard somebody say this because when
I've talked to my dad about this because
he's like you know why why did he get
online in the first place and criticize
this person who was clearly a psychopath
Wow
that's such a funny iron go on yeah yeah
and I was like well I think it's pretty
brave that he did and I think that he
probably did help people who were under
durianrider spell maybe maybe your
videos did help some people
sure and yeah I mean you incur it a lot
of horrible things since then because of
how you you know how you had made videos
criticizing him but I I think it's
something brave you know I respect that
you did that
well happy that I'm happy that you did
look it's also it's a lot easier to be a
gracious loser than a gracious winner
one of the reasons why I take the
attitude I do towards this is just that
I'm humble about the fact that my side
won you know I said this recently didn't
or vegan or as saying to him look you
know you got to be careful what you say
about German I'm not comfortable with
calling during right or in our system
really not I'm not comfortable meeting
that allegation against I don't I don't
I basically don't think we should be
defaming him that way so you guys don't
remember I stood up and defended during
Ryder when vegan cheetah started
defaming him I said no I didn't start my
case so that people would stop defaming
me and defame other people instead
defame permit said I want nobody to be
defaming anyone and that was when
cheetah started hating me I made one
video saying no it's you cannot say that
this man has hiv/aids which she has said
back then he made a video it was deleted
where he claimed that that Jeremiah in
showbiz and then he stuck with that he
made a video where he didn't use the
person's name but he was looking at the
guys blood tests and insinuating this
person said none of this is acceptable
he made another video suggesting
durianrider was having sex with somebody
I'm get I'm just not gonna say who to be
polite and ice on all those issues I
stood up I said to cheetah publicly and
privately
no the point was not to just stop defame
me
you also can't defame during my we have
to have one moral standard a minimum
moral standard that applies to everyone
and yeah I'm I'm duly humbled with the
fact that some people think I cross the
line and think my videos are immoral but
like if you think it's way over the line
for me to say as I've said that Nina and
Randa when they go to an audition in LA
are not the best-looking girls in the
room no one's gonna gasp in amazement
when they show up at an audition in Los
Angeles if you think that's that so
outrageous I understand that like maybe
my own
mother would feel that way you know what
I mean I actually not true of either of
my grandmother's but anyway
hypothetically one of my grandmother's
might have felt that way but if you're
someone who's a fan of durianrider who
consumes his channel the level of
vitriol slander personal insult and just
needless criticism of people just crappy
personal criticism him laying into Tana
mojo like why that's crappy you know for
needless vicious criticism people and
then you look at my channel you think
I'm way over the line that's what
doesn't make sense to me but for sure if
my channel is over the life you don't
watch it you know simple as that you
know another thing think of think of
your behavior when durianrider asked you
to make an apology video really right
and you did right but he didn't accept
that apology he didn't change his
behavior after that yeah I could totally
over that good point yeah you didn't
make a video calling him a psychopath
you still never sunk to this level
that's that Jo vest is thinking - that's
true that is true I made an apology
video - during Ryder and freely just
because Jerry might her asked me and you
know it was when I was going through the
screenshots what he said to me
everything he said to me was either a
threat or an insult to rely except this
one thing is that the one genuine thing
in it was that he asked me to apologize
- freely because he claimed that what
I'd said about her hurt her feelings
freely has never said that by the way
very easy for morality we're within the
six degrees of separation we have
friends in common freely and I but I
said okay this is a man asking me to
apologize to his girlfriend cuz he said
it or he films I'm gonna do it I'm gonna
take that as a positive opportunity and
for him that would have been a great out
that would have been an opportunity to
move the controversy another direction
and do something more pause the whole
thing he didn't he didn't take it that
is true yeah yeah and you know think of
how this video might make me feel my
boyfriend is not a psychopath yet there
are people online saying that he's a
psychopath before we're even together I
wanted to defend him because all these
things seemed ridiculous ludicrous yeah
are you going to apologize
Demi for hurting my feelings Jonas are
you gonna apologize Alfred calling was
like that and would would eyes'll be in
the wrong if he did not accept your
apology then yeah
yeah anyway okay but it's very clear
that the person who is coming up in the
shadow is also someone to be warned of
and not just because he's going after me
he's done that many sir I know we've
only got one sense there but look what
I'm not coming up on his shadow my video
my channel has not gotten any bigger
basically since before the controversy
with during Rider
my channels stay the same size I have
approximately the same number of regular
viewers and that's probably because the
kind of people who won't watch my
channel don't want to watch five videos
a week I have a lot of regular viewers
who've been with me for years I think
they put on YouTube once a month they're
people with real jobs they're just
they're not the kind of stereotype
YouTube comments section troll or
teenage or whatever they don't do that
kind of thing that's not my audience I
got a lot of fully grown adults who
watch this channel and they watch it
once a week or once a month and that's
that's about it but my audiences stayed
the same size but this is before I
started to say you know it's easier to
be a gracious loser than a gracious
winner it's easier to be kind of you
know humble or you know I expect late
we've destroyed we collectively have
destroyed during writers life we've
destroyed his channel his channel has
collapsed and I think some degree of
kind of you know humility is in order
about that and even I've made videos
saying look I feel bad for durianrider
you know it's it's really sad well this
is the only thing yet so if he doesn't
have any other job he doesn't have any
other career he doesn't many let's go on
and we've destroyed it you know now I
didn't destroy it for no reason I didn't
destroy it out of mean-spirited
vindictiveness where's a lot of what he
does against me and other people it just
means they're very vindictiveness but
still you know again unlike Joe best
who's perpetually presenting himself as
the victim I don't see myself as the
victim I think we have to talk about
this as winners not whiners and say look
we have changed the face of vegan
YouTube we have we we me and a bunch of
other people including Bing and Dan's
Gaines vegan gains and carry my carpet
and even unnatural vegan share with our
natural vegan put our foot down and said
no here is the line this far and no
further
and it ended during writers career it
destroyed his credibility it destroyed
his festival in Thailand it has
destroyed his life durianrider has been
sitting there weeping
alone with his girlfriend and his last
two supporters when they go to lunch
they film it they're posting photos and
videos of themselves there's four or
five people out to lunch right and the
festival of people who hate during
Hunter which includes some of his
ex-girlfriend's as you know that has
more than 15 people at it's not a huge
crowd but you see the photos of them
having lunch so this was supposed to be
a festival with a hundred people
attending you know going walking riding
up the mountain to hear during writers
philosophy of life and so on
obviously you know he's destroyed his
own career to a very large extent
obviously his own ridiculous Spade
responsible that but I think you have to
see it in that in that framework I'm not
coming up and during writers channel
during writers shadow
sorry but my channel isn't growing it
hasn't grown and for the most part you
know I have the same the same regular
viewers that I had before any other
started and I remember I tracked it you
know even when when vegan gains gave me
the shout out supporting me in the video
I don't think I gained even one
subscriber from them because the type of
people who are fans of vegan gains are
not fans of my content no complaint
that's it it's just different types
people wanted so if I have 2000 people
who care about my channel I'm happy I
think that's wonderful you know it's
great because I know all kinds of people
with PhDs university professors and
research and they can't get 2,000 people
to show up to their lecture they can't
get 2,000 people to read their article
if it's a PDF unlike they couldn't get
200 people to watch a YouTube video of
them talking about the things they're
passionate about and do research about
their lives
so I'm duly humble about that I don't
expect my channel to grow and it's not
like now you're going to be in charge of
the Thai fruit festival it's not like
you're coming up in his you know you're
taking over his place or something and
who is the whole point Joe best himself
he very much is trying to come up into
much he is trying to take over the
festival he is trying to take over a
leadership role in Chiang Mai Thailand
and exactly that scene so if anyone's
trying to come up off of this tragedy
Joe it's it's you and not me I don't
want to play that why that kind of
leadership rolled so I do not want to
play especially not in terms of the
permanent vacation weight loss right a
bike side of veganism no man that's not
my aspiration and not my interest at all
because it's very clear that he exhibits
extremely similar
power-hungry traits as name withheld
the big difference is okay what have I
done in the last three years of my life
okay and like we can contrast' this the
advice I gave I gave Joe best himself
I moved from Taiwan to Canada I enrolled
in a second BA I already have a BA my
first bi honors BA in political science
I had the humility said well there were
no good masters degree options from me
there no good PhD offers for me I'm
gonna go back to school get a second BA
and of course a lot of thought went a
lot of agonizing right it's a hard
decision to make and I was sitting in
class I mean in Canada you get a rage
rage but I was in class with people aged
18 to 25 primarily you always have a few
mature students in every class you know
this is this is the this is the
situation
I learned Chinese for a little less than
one year I had to stop on Chinese and
learn Japanese I got myself a very
peculiar job as a university professor
in China like in what would the basic la
in my spare time I come on YouTube and
talk about stuff how is this in any way
comparable to what during writers done
or what he's claiming about my life and
and my aspirations and so on here you
know there's there's no resemblance in
the reality of my life what I'm doing
and what I'm aspiring to do and what
he's charging with here I there are
people there were many people on YouTube
who wanted to be the next freely and I
don't even really shame them for that
they saw a successful model and they
wanted to be the next really and I think
there were people who saw what Gerry
mitre didn't directly imitated him and
wanted to be story writer there is no
sense in my life
professional or personal whatever in
which I've been trying to be the next
day miner none but we talked about this
of all the time we have all kinds of
videos talking about career in education
we have all kinds we decide what
activism
and what kind of political role I do
want to play in veganism you know and
even the kind of the politics that are
built into something like me writing
that children's story book right so you
know and what way is that Kampala so
like sue durian riders way to the top
was slander and defamation and celebrity
call-out videos yeah so that's what you
do I use any of the same methods use I'm
writing a children's story book I study
foreign languages I do
history and politics of Asia of Canada
would like there is nothing in common in
our approach and in terms of our
objectives I've said very clearly I want
to be involved in public education and
outreach
I want to imitate the success of mothers
against drunk driving I want to have
civil society organizations of my
manifesto video my whole political
approach eggman has nothing in common
with during a minor I also am NOT giving
weight loss advice
unlike Joe best to give weight loss
advice the big difference is and I don't
want to sound like I'm going soft on
anybody at least name withheld has got a
positive contribution what we've all
said all of us that have fallen out of
him
is you do bring good stuff but you spoil
it by doing so much bad stuff when
people don't agree with you that is it
my issue with that man was that the
whole cancer girl thing when he asked is
she really dead I saw that and I thought
I cannot be this man's friend it's not
going in the same direction of life that
I'm heading in so what is laughable that
I can't even laugh well they either you
have no positive contribution right in
your channel so in terms of when you
first got interested in my youtube
channel like what was the positive
content you responded to ask for you was
an example yeah yeah well the first
video that I saw was passion and
protests won't save the planet alright
and that's me it was really interesting
I didn't hear anybody else on YouTube
talking about this talking about what is
effective activism how can we improve
activism how can we make it so that
there are more vegan people in the world
that is I think the number one thing
that vegans want more vegan people more
people that are interested in ecology
more people that care about animals more
people that want us to be able to
survive as a human race on there is our
planet and your channel was discussing
so many interesting things so many
valuable things that nobody else said or
you know I maybe some topics other
people had
commented on but like you know you have
like almost 600 videos talking about
Pekin politics talking about the future
of the movement talking about I mean
your life - I mean your life is just
interesting you're like all kinds of
different topics that I don't think
anybody else yeah I don't know maybe I'm
biased
you know I'm biased because well I'm in
love with you like you know you've
you've made a really positive
contributions in veganism you've done
book reviews you know you guys doing
well ok this came up in the conversation
read in a children's book this came up
in the conversation with Josh aka big
and revolution right but that was one of
the only parts where there was really
communication he had nothing to say but
he didn't disagree with me he said that
I was a divisive and negative figure in
the movement and my response was it
assumed I said well ok let's talk about
him what sense I'm divisive so the stuff
I say about what is effective activism
protests the stuff I say about
vivisection or domestication of animals
so castrating dogs those kinds of issues
is that if you regard that those as
divisive issues to debate or discuss I
think they're really worthwhile and
meaningful yeah I don't think this even
a meaningless or counterproductive or
negative say it's meaningful because it
will invite vegans to discuss these
matters to come together and talk about
these issues
move it becomes stronger and more
clearly focused than we disambiguate
things that are ambiguous and confusing
than the movement but he didn't object
he didn't disagree and he was foster he
was based like yeah that's yeah right
that's true so I mean obviously that was
an incredibly negative interview overall
credibly hostile but in response that he
had he had nothing hostile or negative
to say he just responded that by saying
yeah that's that's right he agreed he
thought that was a positive contribution
in the movement that's that's one side
of it and the other side of it is uh
this is mostly on Twitter but also by
email when somebody like vegan foot
soldier made the claim there was
absolutely no positive fountain on my
channel I wrote back to him giving
examples in both their counter examples
like I have a playlist for book reviews
those ten videos of a book reviews I
don't think there's anything that
positive on all of Jabez channel there's
definitely not anything that positive on
all of durian writers channel and this
claim that during writer stenciling I
suppose those you know I def you know
again to be self-critical you can see
videos where I just say Gary France
aione is an idiot you know when I don't
really go
death I also have a video that's one
hour and 20 minutes long you'll see it
in that playlist for for book reviews
where I say a lot of positive things
book a reference they own in a very
balanced way we talk about the legacy of
his work what's good and what's bad and
his approach what's good and what's bad
in his book you know we're talking about
a particular book but also his legacy as
influence in the movement in a very
responsible measure way so you know both
are true of my channel but if that's not
positive content what is like I can
really ask the question so my playlist
even if that's the only positive Kannada
my channel which it isn't
but there's another playlist you know
the the wildlife management approach to
veganism talks about the importance of
wild animals and the role of
domesticated animals and how we
philosophize about veganism i we think
of this political movement all the stuff
on effective activism so many videos you
know street protests versus lobbying
government public outreach and education
all that stuff so if this is not a
positive contribution what is and you
will search in vain for anything that
positive enduring writer's channel you
positive and enjoy bests whole whole
record so yeah i mean people like you
got interested in my channel because of
I would say substantive content I mean
positive and negative are kind of
meaningless here but this is substantive
content really showing concern and
interest foreign in the next 10 years of
the vegan movement and what I want to do
in it and saying that I'm a psychopath
and I'm an even worse psychopath and
durianrider that is Joe best response to
that contribution and I'm oh make the
contribution I can jury and writer has
no job during writer has no kids I have
a full-time job and a four year old
daughter and I'm enrolled in university
and I've been enrolled in language
classes you know at the moment I'm not
but you know I was for my first seven
months in China and so on I have other
responsibilities in life sometimes
people say to me they think I'm not
doing enough and I say back well right
now I'm doing the best I can
we're about to fly to France and take
care of my daughter for 15 days I have
other responsibilities so I do what I
can for veganism and that's why I talk
about something like the illustrating
the children's storybooks to wrote this
children story book translated at
getting it Illustrated that's something
positive I can do I can't form a big
organization like petaa out of thin air
I don't have the money I don't the time
I don't you know I don't have any means
to do that so the type of activism I can
I think is worth talking about and I get
all kinds of email back from other
people to talk about this for just email
from someone saying they have a busy job
they're an architect or something and
they're looking for the ways in which
they can make a positive contribution in
the movement within their limitations so
yeah and Oh Joe best why don't you ask
yourself what you can do for the
movement cuz this ain't it homeboy
the few the two vegan friends that I do
have I really encourage them to watch
your channel because I don't know you've
said though that people have written
into you saying that they're your
content made them go vegan yes oh yeah
that is yeah sure like I wouldn't say
you're an introductory vegan Channel no
but once you are a vegan you want to
talk about these things you know like it
doesn't just go away you don't just
become vegan and then you're like oh
okay like there's nothing to talk about
like no like this is something that's
I'm going to be interested in talking
about for the rest of my life like this
is something that had a huge impact on
my worldview what I wanted to do with my
life like how I see your own your own
relatives and friends how you get along
with your parents that stuff I regard
that as positive content even again to
share that one video my video with Zarya
over an hour long and she talks about
how her relationship with her parents
changed when she became vegan I talked
about my relationship with my parents
change and I became vegan talked about
going to farms and seeing animals
getting slaughtered there's a lot of
that kind of positive content and people
like vegan foot soldier and Joe best and
even Noir vegan they want to dismiss
that and call me a narcissist and a
psychopath like I'm not gonna recommend
a foot soldier to my vegan friends
because what are they going to learn
from it how is it gonna positive impact
their lives yeah and in terms of this
question this is often given as a
justification for durianrider well
people have converted to veganism
because well people have converted to
veganism because of me too I can really
ask well what kind of human being
becomes vegan because the term rider and
then what are they gonna do positively
for the movement in the future that's
their main interest if that's their
guiding influence yes right yeah then I
don't I don't really have a lot of lead
you know if this is what the episode
yeah I don't have a lot of confidence
that they'll be vegan forever if that's
why that why they became vegan because
the health argument you know beautiful
and thin and young like that that isn't
something that's going to last what is
going to last is a lot of influence that
your channel is they had the the maybe
they do stay vegan but they stay vegan
on during writers program which is drop
out of school hate your parents get a
vasectomy never have kids go on
permanent vacation live by your own
rules live for your own personal
short-term happiness there were a lot of
layers to that message and there are
people have changed their lives because
of that message I don't think they're
gonna have a positive impact on veganism
the claim was that by glamourizing
veganism by making it seem glamorous
they would spread veganism
I don't think durianrider sitting on his
kitchen floor ranting about how much you
hate psychiatrists and how much and how
old medical doctors are scam artists I
don't think that glamorizes veganism I
think that discredits mechanism I think
it does a lot of harm to the perceptive
perception of veganism but that is the
the excuse or justification for it yeah
and look the people who convert to vegan
is because of my channel which I have I
have had emails to know people so if
there's an excuse ordering writers
excuse for me I think those are people
who really probably will have a positive
maybe those are people of a more
intellectual carrier I showed you
recently about a week ago I got one
message though that they wrote to me
there basically while they're converting
to veganism and they said look I've been
considering converting to veganism I was
looking for in-depth meaningful
discussion of these problems I have with
veganism and they said yours is the only
channel that addressed or dealt with any
stuff and they wrote to me saying they
really appreciate my contribution so
that's out there and I don't care maybe
it's only 100 people ever for my channel
whereas it's a thousand people for
during Ryder it's not millions of people
for dinner maybe it's 5,000 people for
daring writer but sure those 100 people
could have a really meaningful long-term
impact cuz they're the people who care
about those issues and think about the
political consequences of their actions
you know they're not a bunch of
teenagers Steve's was a little cheering
for you know the defamation Olympics
someone like Jermaine Ryder or someone
like vegan cheetah
clowning on the internet and you know
clowning in a way that really harms
people in terms of their personal lives
their sex lives their professional lives
you know I how am I supposed to apply
for a job with this kind of stuff about
me
it really impacts my life yeah yeah and
another positive thing I can share your
videos that aren't even about veganism
with I've sent a few videos to my
brother one being like the one about not
getting offended oh right why it's
pointless to get offended because he had
made some some comment to me how quick
people are to get offended you the other
day a couple days of you shared my video
book caffeine can be shared and I feel
comfortable sharing your videos because
they are informed they are you know
respectful they're not they're not like
content that durianrider puts out
alright anyway anyway but it seems to be
a really easy way to slander someone's
you just say their their channel as
absolutely no content I have one 500
videos and I can send you as I did with
foot solar I can send you
counter-examples you know and it's so
easy for him to claim I don't accept
criticism i consent videos showing hey
Here I am responding to criticism in a
really meaningful way calling me a
psychopath is not really criticism but
here I am now responding right so taking
the time out of my day I mean we're
treating this fairly seriously even
though it's impossible the trees and I
started challenging his nutritional
advice he went after me like a madman
relentless and that's when I realized I
definitely cannot be associated with
this man well how do you think I feel
Joe like why is there no capacity for
sympathy or empathy there you feel so
sorry for yourself you're such a victim
that during Ryder went after you gee can
you think of anyone else who's had a
similar experience and might might
endure similar feelings you know I mean
evidently I am I am tougher than Joe
best despite his background in the
street gangs of London hanging out with
really tough Psychopaths in the street
gangs of London Joe that's your claim
but I'm tougher than you homeboy I dealt
with a lot more than you and you could
have reached out to me positively at any
point during that period and you didn't
you didn't stand up and do the right
thing what it would have taken guts when
it would have taken courage or when it
would have just taken some human empathy
some compassion some sympathy you didn't
do that at all you piled on you rode
with
bandwagon when it was fashionable to say
that I was a scam artist and that my
court case was fake you rolled with it
and now you're riding with the other
bandwagon you're a piece of [ __ ] either
way man
the problem with this fella here a
baseless seal as a mossad is that he
doesn't contribute anything positive
anyway there's no positive content that
comes out of there because it's all
designed to undermine anybody with whom
he criticizes he claims that what he's
doing is that he's provided like he says
every movement needs a critic but what
he what he's really saying is every
movement needs a leader who insults them
and that's me but the glaring red flag
to me is so Jovi Moritz over this but he
hasn't watching these videos and he is I
think too stupid sorry
job job asked up st. Joe vegan waxed in
there okay so my critique of ZOA Palace
is a book written by a Canadian
University professor with a PhD who is
influential within animal rights at
least at the academic level that book
propels the notion that rats should have
civil rights rats in city should have
civil rights it prepares a bunch of
really crazy no will Tuttle again in my
book review of him contains insane
supernatural notions a book a book but
but xalapa less is a good example you
can check the book reviews playlist on
my channel do you actually think there's
no significance to my sitting down and
making video warning people most soom
have not read that book and will never
at that book and most whom just assumed
these are respectable store as most
people I've talked to they just assume
will Tuttle was a really respectable
representative of veganism because I
don't know he wears a nice suit he's
published a book and he travels the
world giving lectures on veganism then
that video is really warning you wait
there's something important here you
don't know that's ethically wrong and
morally wrong and intellectually wrong
same with Gary Yourofsky so many people
send me emails thanking me because they
said they had no idea what gary
yourofsky's position of violence was and
i puts it together of anywhere i'm
quoting end point and I explained look
this is this is something I have so we
can't compromise with this is morally
wrong and it's politically wrong it's
tactically and strategically wrong no
Gary Yourofsky we really have to
recognize
his position on violence is and will
chemicals name of the professor wrote
zoo Ovilus will Kim Luka what he's
actually saying about rats and snakes
and by the way what he says about
backyard chickens laying eggs he has
this ludicrous justification which is I
mind anti-vegan of why it's okay to eat
chicken eggs whites okay don't even ride
a horse or keep horses this kind of
thing horses and cows net there's a
justification or happy milk which i
think is really dangerous than the vegan
movement other people wouldn't know
about that
without that critique without my reading
the book and doing the book review
discussing it you know and you're not
undermining you're not undermining the
authors you're talking about what the
authors talked about right well in
discussing it and providing a book
review for somebody else and what is Joe
best doing here yeah he's just going me
a psychopath right right right
but if but if I am undermining the
author's even we accept that even if it
is negative this is the negative book
review right I mean it's a negative book
review sure it's not a positive book
review you can call it negative but it's
critique but something substantive that
matters if I'm undermining the author's
why okay yeah I'm undermining the idea
that rats should be citizens the brat
should have civil right so that that's
what meaning fortunately do you expect
me to apologize for that it's not the
same it's not comparable in any way to
what durianrider has done to undermine
people in terms of their personal
integrity their sex lives their private
lives during right are going after me in
terms of my relationship with my own
ex-wife murdered my daughter him making
criminal allegations about me how is
that comport when anyways a here's an
academic with a PhD you published a book
and I'm gonna criticize some of the
political ideas in that book you can
call it negative you can say I'm
undermining the person how is that
comparable to durianrider claiming I'm a
sexual predator claiming that I'm a wife
beater which isn't real claiming that I
was he claimed that I was kicked out of
a vegan group in Quebec because I slept
with so many of the women in this group
and stuff there is no comparison
whatsoever all right you can use the
verb undermining for both you can use
the Dan adjective negative for both but
I mean Joe best you're you're so far
wrong on this and you mean I guess you
can't see it yourself
ma'am but the glaring red flag to me is
what kind of critic can't take criticism
what kind of critic has their comment
turned off it's like he stands though of
a megaphone tells you exactly what you
need to think and then puts his hands
over his ears
it is absolutely preposterous so now
I'll say about this but we just saw this
video from Joe best and it didn't just
have a lot of comments below it you
could see Joe took a lot of time to read
and reply to every comment Joe best
doesn't have a job Joe best doesn't have
kids Joe best is on permanent vacation
so he can do that I can't I tried for a
couple months meanwhile I was a student
and couldn't mang I did put in my level
best to interact the audience that way
and you know moderate the comments
section and this stuff and you know at
the end of that time okay I'm not a
student anymore you know I got this job
and moved to new location so on I don't
have the time to do that I also don't
have the interest you know like I really
you know that quality of comments you
get on YouTube most of it is not worth
time but but Joe has I guess I don't
know if he considered himself retired or
not he has no job he has a lot of time
on his hand I don't I don't want to
maintain a comment section I've
described why I've made multiple videos
talking about why there's no comment
session on my channel I do take the time
to reply to people on patreon those
people pay one dollar a month if you
write to me on patreon email me within
the you know you can privately message
me with a patron or publicly comment
within patreon I do answer those
comments and that's part of how I use my
time effectively a right now this
weekend I have to grade 150 exams I have
both oral exams and written exams I'm a
university professor in China and I'm
still a university student in Canada
getting this second degree real people
do real things Joe and different people
use this medium use YouTube in different
ways yeah and I think you're really
confusing critique with insult because
most of the YouTube comments would be
insulting the majority of them would not
be a critique of what you say because I
remember what kind of comments you used
to get again and I see the kind of
comments that were left on Joe bus video
right insulting to you right they will
just come into your comment section and
insult you there
and you're gonna have to you know I mean
just leave them up leave up insulting
comments I mean what's what's the point
I can't justify using my time that way
now you know maybe it would be different
if I was in the position to rewrite or
Joe Besser maybe if I were retired and I
just had a lot of time to burn oh no
even that you know so much more
potential to comment on I got the
comment again and again I don't know if
it ridges to remind people writing to me
saying that my watch was worth $2,000 I
got that so many times in the comments
are like oh there you are with your
$2,000 watch what you know where is this
covering why should I reply this is not
critique this is not talking about
political views and this kind of thing
you know and again really nasty personal
insinuations about my daughter and my
divorce and my psychology and
what-have-you it's like well if this is
what you want to do with your time Joe
you know do it but you're making it
worse you're an example of this why do I
got a reply to you some idiot calling me
a psychopath you know more than 10 times
in this video it's not it's not critique
it's just an insult or it's just
defamation by oneself
preposterous there is nothing more
narcissistic than having a debating
dialog provocative channel where you
don't let your audience have a say the
funny thing is there's an implicit
compliment there that doesn't square
with his other criticism so you're
saying it's an intellectual debate type
of channel right well that's not what
you said a minute ago and maybe so
there's absolutely no positive comment
on my on my channel so you know if
there's no positive content what you've
just described is a is a channel with a
lot of positive content but you wish you
could leave comments and the videos Joe
if you want only comments in the video
pay one dollar one dollar per month to
join patreon and that's where people
have comments and discussions and many
of my videos are me replying to I've got
another one that's not uploaded yet we
recorded yesterday me replying to
comments then page your own that I get
from people and including criticism you
know I'll give that 47 minute long video
which is all me replying to you know a
credit a very angry harsh critic who
wrote to me on patreon so you know
anyway this is this it's so easy to just
say this person doesn't
reply to criticism well Joe best back
when I wanted to talk to you it wasn't
really criticism was just trying to
overcome your misconceptions you were
not willing to talk to me back when you
were saying that I was committing fraud
back were you saying these terrible
things when you were backing up during
writers criminal allegations about me I
was going to talk to you I was going to
answer your criticism and you you
weren't willing to you you claimed
anyway you claimed you had dyslexia
whatever yeah I can't understand why
anyone would watch these videos when you
can't have a say it's like someone
giving you a one-sided argument it is
just the most ridiculous thing I've ever
I think there is some truth to that but
you know I think that broadcasting is
one-sided
and there's literature I mean with the
exception of when I do a podcast talking
back and forth somebody like I had you
know criticized me dumb vegan do you
remember that I did that with them vegan
and dumb vegan said that he didn't
believe certain things were totally
relaxed smiling happy way you know
responded to his criticism so ain't no
thing
you know but that's you know I do
dialogues I do podcasts I do discussions
with people but with that aside you know
don't kid yourself broadcasting is a
one-way format you know if you're
watching my video basically I talk and
you listen you know yeah there's no
there's no overcoming that and in terms
of what fits into my life I can take the
time to record this video which I don't
even know a lot gonna be 20 minute long
video or something and then I can upload
that and then I can go work out and
great papers today I'm gonna as mention
I'm gonna be grading exams you know yeah
I can't sit and mine the comments
section I can't sit and do an open chat
forum would you exists on the internet
that's not really what YouTube is but
they're all you can do reddit or
something well you really have an
ongoing discussion with the person I
can't take the time to do that and also
in my experience with vegans like Joe
best that's really not rewarded that
lowers the intellectual caliber compared
to my playlist of book reviews I'd
rather take that time and do a book
review and do something really
substantive for the future the vegan
movement of people to engage with but
sure anyone else wanted to reply to
those book reviews or anything I say in
terms political content great yeah no
get the ball rolling yeah you can reach
you oh yeah somebody can reach you
through patreon and the patreon is like
a $1 filter to have right yeah it's an
easy
for you to have um uh to separate you
know intelligent responses versus just
insulting responses sure it's I think
it's very rational and I think it's a
really good thing that you basically is
the barrier that keeps the trolls own
yeah whatever but I also do live
streaming where anyone can talk to me I
do it like you know I'm not hard to
reach one of the other criticisms was
that I didn't talk to people who
disagreed with me in Chiangmai it's
completely untrue on both trips to
Chiangmai I met up with people who hated
me when they were going to meet with me
or they were interest in talking to me
I've been open to talking to you know
so-called enemies you know most of whom
as soon as they meet me they confess
that they know I'm in the right and that
during writers been lying and stuff you
know I was going to meet with and talk
with even people like vegan Ava so I've
always had the door open that way and
there's been dialog with a lot of people
who have you know very contrasting
political views to mine on this channel
I mentioned yet but the the Mormon woman
American unicorn she's a religious
conservative Mormon obviously a lot more
right-wing you know that I am or anyone
I know is and you know I've been open to
that that stuff you know I know I know
one conservative vegan who I had on
livestream you know who's like more of a
Republican kind of guy I had him a
legend he's not been on that YouTube
channel yet I'm sure he will be in the
future
vegan dreams this is screen name you
know I really opened that stuff and I
discussed that a lot in my videos so
yeah fundamentally this is a one way
medium and I only have enough time to
really kind of do this stuff one way but
in the past when I tried that stuff when
I tried using reddit or using more you
know more of an open back-and-forth
conversation it was not a worthwhile use
of my time yeah yeah I also kind of see
you as a professor you give a lecture
you don't stay after and I'll leave
comments that's true that's true and
some of this stuff like you remember I
remember I did a video that was about
the essay I'd written on the history of
Russia China Japan and this massacre
that happened in 92 is an instance of
political mass murder and communist
revolution and I just did a video
talking about that what do you think
like you think look you think YouTube
comments it's how you're gonna get
meaningful feedback from some of that
sure I mean some of the videos it's
one-sided you know another video that
got a really positive set from the video
I did called
why I have no future or maybe it's why I
don't have a future search for the word
future you'll get it but it's a video
talking about my own life talking about
my career talking McCune very
self-critical totally incompatible with
the thesis that I have narcissistic
personality disorder a narcissist could
not make that video there's a lot of
videos self-critical in this way and you
know I'm happy to talk more about my
life with people somebody like Maude
vegan somebody knows know what she does
talk to me about you know my life and
career choices in education and stuff
but that's not a case where like the
meaningful feedback you're gonna get are
gonna be you know two sentences on
YouTube on the contrary what you can you
know I got anti-semitic comments and
comments insulting comments about my mom
I might divorce my daughter that's a lot
of what you get you know and my $2,000
watch you know at this kind of stuff so
yeah I mean we all make choices this is
how I choose to use YouTube but I mean I
guess where people are used to is what
when she did it or you guys don't
remember edgy when she would enter
videos by saying I love you guys I miss
you guys so much
this is what people expect on YouTube
this really high level of flattery and
praise all the time coming from the
youtuber and that's not who I am I'm
keeping it real I'm gonna I'm gonna give
it to you raw and I'm not the only guy
who does I think a guy like Joey carbs
strong Joey carbs from basically only
does two things on his channel now I
mean his channels changed a lot in a
year because he stopped believing
enduring margitta jus encryption if he
does Street protests you know and street
activism tell you outreach education
talking to people on the street and he
does real talk about his life where he
talks about you know he's got a prison
record and the cops check up on him and
what he's what he's doing in his life
and he moved back in with his mom he
talks about real life those are two
things that respect one is real activism
the other is keeping it real and talking
about your life in a down-to-earth
manner and you know I mean my channel is
more in that category I'm not selling
you a dream and I'm not telling you that
I love you when I don't even know who
you are and I'm not telling you I miss
you when I haven't made a video in two
weeks because I've been busy or
something you know some of us some of us
want to keep it real and sure for me you
know I have the comment section off as
part of that but anybody get that
including Joe best Joe best of all
people has had tons of email
correspondence in the last two and a
half years
anyway I mean look it suppose it's a way
to discredit somebody that's all this
video does is try to discredit me and
claim on the psychopath yeah and you've
told me that it's depressing that you
don't have enough intelligent responses
that you don't have people who are
actually giving you valid critique you
want that you want to be critiqued you
want like your idea is to be discussed
you want sure keeping it all the way
real that's why the book review stopped
because the book reviews there wasn't
there was no snowball effect there
wasn't even one person who made a
response video coming back to it and
we're applying what have you and you
know by contrast some stupid controversy
involving vegan cheetah or something it
will win that way of people responding
to it in discussing it from different
angles or even you know soon as I did
that I did the video about hiring a
nanny hiring a babysitter you know and
that was me responding to a controversy
on someone else's channel and you know i
think i think i provided intelligent
discussion but whatever make up your own
mind that's a it's a short informal
video so no there was no intelligent
debate or discussion on even one other
channel you know in response to those
book reviews i did I mean the only
exception was Maude vegan herself and
her responses on my channel it's all I
was not complaining but she came on my
channel we did a further discussion of a
of a book I read and responded to but it
was like well if there is if there's
just no other intellectual weight out
there in veganism to respond to this
stuff I'm not gonna put my time into
into doing these programs and we'll see
maybe when I get back to Canada you know
when I have access to a library which I
don't we're in China um you know maybe
I'll change my mind I'll try to do book
reviews again test the waters and see
how that is but yeah sure I wish I had
contemporaries I wish I had colleagues I
wish I had critics dealing with the
political and intellectual content on my
channel whether that's about politics of
Asia or politics of Canada or politics
of Vedas and I don't what I have is Jo
bass saying that I'm a psychopath sure
you don't have anybody right you know
there's one person who knows dong died
yes yeah you know you you reached out to
him sure to study with him right no
response right well I still have even
with that guy he doesn't but yeah yeah
yeah but anyway that that video gets in
the details of that my relations with
other scholars and you know for me I
have this contrast my experience with
veganism my experience with ecology you
know a green party formal ecological
politics my experience the veganism my
experiences Buddhism you know and yeah I
mean long story short I am Canadian I am
very disappointed with the intellectual
caliber of my fellow Canadians this
generation I can even contrast veganism
and my experience with First Nations
so that's native people of Canada at the
Cree the Ojibwe the den a you know
indigenous groups people who lived in
Canada before white people got there and
the politics of their education and
languages the threats that were
interesting I was involved in those both
excel so I can I can compare you know
what's going on intellectually in these
in these different fields but sure I
mean I didn't I didn't come on YouTube
to be alone I came on YouTube to engage
with other people and engage with other
people about these issues and debate and
discuss this and ultimately instigate
new organizations new institutions new
foundations for which my usual
comparison is Mothers Against Drunk
Driving civil society organizations real
political organizations not just
screaming at strangers on the street you
know and lobbying government and getting
involved in public education and
lobbying the school board trying to get
rid of the idea that eggs are healthy or
milk is healthy from what children are
taught in schools those are the kind of
issues I want to get you am writing a
children's story book all this other
positive those were those are my
aspirations so I didn't come on YouTube
to be alone yeah and yes being an
intellectual on YouTube is lonely and is
mostly repaid with this kind of response
from Joe bass like calling you a
psychopath which may indeed make it
harder for me to get a job one day
having stuff on the internet saying
you're a psychopath and saying you're a
predator it's not it's not it's not real
good for that way and I think it scares
other intellectuals away from it they
don't want to they don't want to have
them because they have two other
comments about the no comment section
yeah one good thing that I think the
comments section being turned off allows
is to it looks more respectable if you
should I share a video with somebody
they may scroll down and see that
there's no comments
but right if there were comments it
probably would just kind of a lesson
lesson the quality
I've had that experience I've seen a lot
of times many times people sent me email
responding to a video and they even said
an email well I only watched two minutes
of the video but I saw in the comments
section that you say this so therefore
I'm writing to you now attacking you so
a lot of times people prejudge the video
based on what it says in a comment
session of course that can happen also
with other people bad like Joe best
bad-mouthing me now on his channel but
that definitely avoids that and I've
seen that every seven periods of time on
my channel where the comments were
enabled and opened to everyone I've had
periods when they were open but they
were being censored and I've had periods
where there's no comments and definitely
the best my channel works the best when
there were no comments because then
people will at least watch the whole six
minutes of the video hello and allow
them allow themselves to make up their
own mind rather than looking at other
people's comments right okay cool you
said you were two comments like it makes
more respectable and also allows people
to make up their own minds right and I
can't imagine why you would watch it so
my strategy and this is what they advise
in narcissistic psychopathic circles is
you must cease contact now if you notice
on the screen Trey says not interested I
have not watched this video then why are
you making a video in response so the
guys I have made other videos document
artistic personality disorder NPD this
is narcissism in the strict
psychological and medical sense just
gonna say this real briefly I have met
I've met two people I'm very confident
at NPD I've met other people where I
suspected because of that experience
those two people only one of those two
people admitted to me that he had been
diagnosed with an VD because most people
MPD will not admit you they have a
diagnosis and even then it's quite it's
quite a rare diagnosis it's not that
common to get diagnosed partly cuz
there's no treatment anyway you know
it's not they can't help you that much
with it it's like you have your
establishment but anyway be that as it
may it isn't NPD narcissistic
personality disorder is a behavioral
disorder it specifically is a disorder
of social behavior alright it's totally
possible to meet someone who has bulimia
and talk to them and not notice and not
suspect that bulimia because the nature
of the disorder of bulimia is more
private is more separated from social
interactions like conversations at
debates you know that probably happened
the bathroom and in the kitchen and you
don't you of a co-worker less bulimia
and you're not even aware all right NPD
is not like that narcissistic
personality disorder even if you don't
know what the disorder is if you meet
and talk to somebody who really has it
like even if I just stick with a one
example of the guy I knew who was
formally diagnosed well there are two
people who I really feel confident but I
knew over a long period of time who have
the disorder their behavior is very very
strange
it is very abnormal alright and this is
something people want overlooked they
just want to use this as an insult this
is a really serious disorder but it's
specifically a social behavior disorder
it's a disorder of how they interact
with other people so it's it's really
not the case that you can meet someone
with NPD if you meet some of them being
you know nothing about MPD you'd walk
away from that interaction thinking
there's something really wrong with that
guy and I'm not saying that then he
heated my heart to the people who
struggle with MPD it's a real disorder
currently most people assume you're born
with it that it's innate that it's not
you know acquired through trauma or
something like that it's not like
post-traumatic stress disorder most
people assume it is innate we don't know
yet it's really the the level of Science
in the field is still pretty pretty
sketchy still at a pretty preliminary
stage but this idea that someone like me
if you know anything about MPD that one
video I made you know why I don't have a
future the other video I made the forty
seven minute video responding to
criticism from a viewer people with MPD
can't do that they can't do it in the
way I do for people with MPD I mean the
one guy I knew who was diagnosed with it
the hardest thing in the world he gave
me basically the the plants the plants
suffer to argument that plants plants
want to live that your heart hurting a
plant when you kill an argument and I
responded to him very brief in a very
friendly way and he was completely
incapable of replying at all he couldn't
admit he was wrong he couldn't joke
about it he couldn't say yeah I guess
that's another perspective on asan
interacting with people who really have
MPD is not like interacting with a
normal person in some ways they aren't
all people I think one reason why they
can be successful in society is when
they sit alone at their computer they
can hold down a job they can be
successful financially there are a lot
of jobs that can be good at but
specifically
something like an informal conversation
is really really hard for people with
MPD I just say because I've been getting
email lately from some of my some of my
number one fans claiming that I have
narcissism at MPD and I can't take it
seriously cuz I do know about the
disease I have done some research in the
disorder and I have known I think two
people for sure who really have it and
ultimately if you know people with a
disorder I think it's normal to feel
pity for them because a lot of the time
they're struggling to kind of be all
they can be or be as good as they can be
in their way but things that are easy
for you and me are really really hard
for someone with narcissistic
personality disorder it's all I got to
say about that but anyway this is just
more slander and defamation from Joe so
I have not watched this video I will not
be watching this video for one I think
the thumb now is just heinous look at no
point diamond this is also a problem
with autumn my critics how valid would
my book reviews be if I didn't read the
book and all these people foot soldier
and vegan Ava and you know even nor
vegan they would say well I haven't
really watched your video but are
they're criticizing it is when I write
back and say oh well do you actually
watch this video about that topic they
haven't seen it I mean very
fundamentally you know you have to read
the primary source of what it is you're
criticizing and obviously jovis is just
going by some other people's comments
about this video how is he basing his
response to this video it's just
slanderous just I mean look some of the
stuff I've looked at I didn't want to I
didn't enjoy watching when I criticized
freely I did my due diligence and I went
and watched exactly what she said I
based my criticism on exactly she said
somebody's what she's written she had
some writing on her blog you know I went
in did that work when I criticized
unnatural vegan I went and reviewed what
she actually I was a responsible critic
of actually going through point by point
and making sure it's responsible
contrasting what she said to a written
source and this kind of stuff you know
just recently when you did the video
about Earthlings and you watched my
videos from that's right get a sense of
his channel that's right in addition to
the videos I actually quoted because I
do have some clips of him in the video I
made sure I watched a number of our
other videos to have a feel for what his
content is like yeah I do my my due
diligence and most of these people who
harshly criticized men condemned me they
don't and they often say in this kind of
self-important way well I haven't
watched your videos but I mean that's
the foot soldiers approach would say
well he hasn't watched any of my videos
but he's confident there's not any
positive as a substantive content of my
whole channel and then when I write back
saying well there is here's a link you
know well here-here's a counter example
or when these people say there's no
example of me responding to criticism
right well here's an example I have I
have over five minute videos quite a few
of them I am responding to criticism you
know they have nothing to say you know
this is nothing comes back so it's
supposed and no it's not legitimate and
I can't make any excuses for it if you
want to criticize freely ordering writer
or me or anyone else you got to work
with primary sources you go to criticize
what I've actually said and what I've
actually done it so it's a very basic
minimum standard because otherwise it
it's all the signs of someone that that
is about the ego to parade your your you
know your new girlfriend in thumbnails
in bed in this way okay but look I mean
so this I want to make a separate video
talking with this city of selfishness
and the ego and stuff all right
I'm willing to own it like you know I'm
showing a video and a photo of me being
happy with my girlfriend does that
really make me such a piece of [ __ ] am I
such a terrible person that I don't just
share what we mentioned the book reviews
and the political decisions I also share
part of my life like I'm really happy
I'm in this wonderful new relation with
my girlfriend that I show me and my
girlfriend being happy together and I
talk about what a great time is that
really make me such a terrible person
heinous like compared to what anybody
else is doing on being YouTube I know
magazine yeah okay you can call that ego
you know I have a video of one video of
me playing with my daughter right
so is that ego like I'm showing you what
a great parent I am showing you me
playing with my daughter with like
little you know colored bricks and stuff
what a piece of [ __ ] who would put that
on YouTube what a terrible person you
are for sharing a dot a video of you of
you playing with your daughter and you
know when you get in the other stuff in
my life you know I'm very critical in
talking but I'll keep doing humanitarian
work you know when one I did humanism
were you're handing out sacks of rice to
serve people I think for a lot of people
that is an ego trip
I think it's worth talking about I'm
gonna wet wool okay is this an ego trip
you feel morally superior to others
because you've done this humanitarian
work is there you know like people say
white guilt is there a guilt trip
involves whether it's you know Laos and
Cambodia or within Canada First Nations
Cree in a jib way and den a trying to
try and help those people you know when
people write to me as nor vegan did
recently insulting me and claiming that
I'm self-interested when I do these
these ostensibly good things I'm going
to write back and say you're right I'm
selfish I've said it myself in the video
in the manifesto video I'm more
ambitious than this I'm more selfish
than this I I want more I'm not happy
with what's going on in veganism I want
it to be bigger and better and more and
more political and more effective and
have real outcomes I want to be
respected and respectable I want to step
organizations like Mothers Against Drunk
Driving that could get quoted in the
press and that aren't regarded as a joke
yeah I want more and there's an element
of that which is my ego and is my
selfishness I think to found a big
successful organization like peda I
think it takes some ego I think guys
like Gary France aione have something
Lee has a lot of ego I think a lot of I
think Gary Yourofsky has a lot of ego
and and fine I don't criticize him
through that sure there is a role of ego
in this there is literally a roll of ego
and selfishness in handing out food to
starving people on a refugee camp there
is and we can talk about that example I
had a Skype call with a guy who was just
doing humanitarian work in in Syria and
we the Syrian civil war
and you know we talked about that kind
of stuff you know there there is there
is an element of that which I'm willing
to be self-critical about you know
there's an element of ego I'll even say
that's because First Nations have
mentioned this year my decision to study
those languages and get involved with
our politics and everything else there
is an element of ego because
fundamentally I grew up as a child not
willing to accept the status quo I lived
in a wealthy country where our native
people lived in poverty I lived in a
country where our native people had much
worse access to education and drinking
water than anyone else I grew up in a
country where when I went to a bank
machine it had English French and
Chinese you could choose the language of
the bank machine and it never had curry
or a jib way or Mohawk or any native
land
where I never saw a single no smoking
sign in a native language I lived in a
country that I felt was guilty of
slow-motion genocide and I said this is
not good enough for me I refuse to be a
part of this you know there is a role of
ego in standing up and saying hey hey
there's no way I can study Cambodian
there's no way I can study Palli there's
no I can have a teacher
I'll teach myself I'm gonna buy that
aircon ticket I'm gonna go live on the
Mekong Mekong River I'm gonna apply for
humanitarian work oh I can't get ahead
in First Nations like I'm gonna get the
books out of the library and start
studying created you boy so yes there's
a rule of ego in all of those things and
I'm willing to criticize it and talk
about it openly and I'm going to talk
about the role of selfishness even in
humanitarian work I think that's
actually a really deep topic and one's
ugh with the role selfishness in in
vegan leadership sure so you know come
at me Joe
I'm not I'm not afraid of any of this
stuff yeah and he was basing this on the
thumbnail he didn't actually watch the
video so he's saying that ISIL is
parading me based off of this thumbnail
this is me being in the thumbnail yeah
it's really weird okay yeah when it's
not like it's an interview between the
two of them it's more like a prop he's
got the microphone ball the girl the
bedroom the white robe whatever it is it
feels like it's all props to shore up an
ego I'm sure they're having a great time
she seems like a lovely girl but the
signs to me are thanks yeah he's always
he always imagines that one he can be
the victim and two he can be the nice
guy by just throwing in this kind of
[ __ ] so again she seems like a
lovely girl doesn't make you a nice guy
Joe Joe you're a piece of [ __ ] and
you've hurt my girlfriend's feelings
what do you think you call you she's in
love with me you call me a psychopath
publicly you think this makes it okay to
say you're sure she's a lovely girl look
you don't need to save me Joe he always
thinks he's the victim and he always
thinks he's a nice guy I never know of
somebody who is completely intent on
showing up and eager so I'm not gonna
watch this video
in fact what I've discovered on YouTube
because
always up to speed of it you can click
on the three dots next to the
recommended or the posted side things
and just say not interested and they
won't show up again jump cut jump cut
masterpiece of editing and now what we
have on stream are the words unfortunate
victim and that is what Joe best thinks
of himself and he then has a clip from
somebody else's video you know this is
basically condemning me as being a
psychopath and we're to skip this I
think because we don't either I don't
does he talk again towards the end of
the video but he's advising you on how
to handle me as a psychopath with a clip
I assume it's from some psychologist or
psychiatrist I mean it's just from some
other youtuber I don't know this source
okay so let's let's see if Joe best has
anything else to say and then we can
wrap this up what I'm advocating here is
I'm switching off to both the point of
this video is vote with your view in the
same way in the world you can vote with
your dollar vote with your view we have
watched this before so I do remember
what he says the respite I think we can
we can wrap this up and you know I say
that to people so that yesterday did
somebody on livestream I said if you
want YouTube also this is not a captive
audience I totally agree with Joe best
about this if you don't like my content
if you don't respect my perspective
don't watch my channel and you know I
wrote to an old friend the other day I
noticed this I said to myself in a
self-deprecating way I wrote a friend
haven't talked to you in years trying to
stay in touch this guy and I just said
to him you know just so you know most of
my web presence is pretty close to self
parody you know I had the link to my
youtube channel you know some of the
stuff in my channel is silly some of
it's ridiculous some of it you may find
offensive I don't find it offensive you
may you know I listen to rap music I
mean what I find offensive is maybe not
the same thing that you find offensive I
do find it very inconsistent that people
who don't find durianrider offensive
claim that they find me that there are
some very strange than that but fine as
he says vote with your view don't watch
it very often stay assuming the other
day we talked about other vegan
youtubers very often I say whether use
look I don't think this person is an
idiot I don't think they're bad
only development but their content is
not for me most channels like there are
so many channels that have a ton of
followers and they literally film
themselves grocery shopping they film
themselves at the grocery store looking
at packages and saying oh maybe I'll buy
this maybe not not for me I don't think
you're an idiot I don't think you're bad
for veganism I don't have anything harsh
or Cadi to say about you I'm not gonna
slander and defame you about your sex
life or your personal fitness or how fat
you are or how fast you can ride a
bicycle up a mountain it's just not for
me and you can normally see from the
viewers there's maybe 10,000 people who
want to see that video okay fine
wonderful so why is it so hard to have
mutual appreciation across those
boundaries I think I mention this before
shall we carb strong I had a positive
interaction with him this is Facebook
messages and he said to me you know his
channel is totally different from mine
but he could appreciate that I was
presenting a different message that
reaches a different audience and we need
that kind of diversity in veganism
so why is it so hard for someone like
Joe best ordering my trans people to
just appreciate I have a different
message and a different style that
reaches a different kind of audience and
it it reached you you know it brought
this wonderful person in my life who I'm
in love with and you know we live
together in the same apartment and we're
going we're gonna fly to France and
you're gonna meet my daughter she just
met my mom for the first time is a big
part of my life and you know right off
the bat in this relationship we had
something well we had a lot of things in
common but you know you really knew who
I was you know the good and the bad of
it you had a real sense of my character
from watching my youtube channel and for
me that's the ultimate reward of keeping
it real
you know is that it brings people into
your life you can have more meaningful
relationships in your life of people who
meet you through YouTube people who meet
through social media and if I put on the
facade which I guess is what Jovi Joe
Joe best wants me to do and just pretend
I'm cool with everybody I'm so happy or
I mean the easiest thing to do to shut
to prevent drama like this is just write
back to people and say yeah thanks that
would be great we should totally do a
collab sometime and then never schedule
it right just like oh yeah maybe next
month sorry I'm busy yeah great I saw
your video that was great
talk to you soon and then goes and then
goes right like and that's I think
that's what a lot of youtubers do to
save face you can do that but I mean I'm
keeping it real I'm giving it to you raw
about all this stuff the successes and
the failures in my life about everything
else and there are advantages and
disadvantages one of the disadvantages
of this guy calling me a psychopath but
the advantages are it brought this woman
into my life and from day one I mean you
knew me so much better than I knew you
and by setting out who you really are at
videos then you can find the other
people who have common ground with you
whether that's for love or for
friendship or for collaboration in
veganism as a political moment this is
my beautiful girlfriend oh I only have
her on camera to show up you got
anything else to say before it calls a
wrap thanks for parading me around
that's a wrap
so wrap Marty